Instructions for this Section
------------

In this section, we applied the inclusion criteria from the pre-analysis plan, as detailed in the Inclusion Criteria Flowchart. We followed guidance from Bristol University (available at https://research-information.bris.ac.uk/en/datasets/uk-biobank-genetic-data-mrc-ieu-quality-control-version-2), which represents the state of the art in terms of what population to include in a Mendelian randomization analysis. The basic criteria from this university are standardized: a homogenous ethnic group – usually white European, who were genotyped, did not withdraw consent, and are not directly related, as well as additional quality control criteria including that individuals did not have a genetic vs biological sex mismatch, sexual aneuploidy (an extra chromosome), or excess hetoryzgosity or missing rate. The only difference between the most recent Bristol recommendations (in 2019) and the kinship category in the UK Biobank is that the UK Biobank excluded all individuals who were explicitly third-degree relatives or closer of someone else in the dataset. We adopted this approach because it was the more stringent of the two and so further reduces the probability of familial effects.

These are all almost uniformly done in analyses involving the UK Biobank and are established variables in the dataset itself, attesting to the high likelihood of this procedure having been carried out appropriately.
In terms of exclusion criteria explicitly for our own project, we also excluded all individuals with prevalent cardiovascular disease at baseline (based on ICD-10 codes in the pre-analysis plan).  
Lastly, we used the File “Processing Non-Genetic Data” to process operation and diagnosis codes for UKB, create overarching CVD event and date variables, denote an individual’s status at endline (dead, CVD, or censored), and we include typical covariates such as the location of the assessment center, date of assessment, smoking, and educational attainment. I also created BMI as the exposure variable, which was based on the first measured BMI, the time that also marked an individual’s start date of follow up. It's important to note that we handle the differential follow up time for people from England, Wales, and Scotland in the analysis and descriptive statistics sections.

